When doing integration testing of our application.
Sometimes we need to make use of alternative configuration.
For example, we might need to run our application on a different port number or connect to a database
as a different user, or even connect to a different database.
And one of the ways to make our test methods to use alternative configuration is to use test property
source annotation.
So I will delete properties from Springboard Test annotation and I will add another annotation that
is called Test Property Source.
And this annotation allows us to manually override certain configuration properties just the same way
we used Springwood test sanitation and test property.
So sanitation also allows us to load configuration properties from another configuration file.
So let's see how it works to load configuration properties from another file.
We will need to specify location of that file.
So in brackets I can use locations, property and then in double quotes provide a path to a configuration
file.
I want to use, for example, application test properties.
So this will make sprint framework load application properties from both files, from application test
properties that I'm using here and from application properties file.
But properties that are loaded from this file that is specified here, we'll have a higher precedence
than the default application properties file.
And you can also use this test property source annotation to manually override values for certain configuration
properties.
And to do that you will use already familiar to your properties.
Attribute We have used exactly the same attribute with Springwood test annotation.
So we will use properties attribute and in double quotes we'll provide the list of properties that we
want to override.
For example, I will override a single property that is called server port.
And that will make it 8081.
For example, let's have a look what we have in application properties.
I have eight, eight, eight, eight.
So here I will use a different port number.
So this file, you will have the highest precedence higher than the value specified here and higher
than the value specified here.
So let's see how it works.
I have defined several port here and they have defined server port in application properties file.
So now I'm going to create application test properties and I will define server port in that file as
well.
I will scroll down and we'll select resources folder of my application and we'll create a new file here
that is going to be New Resource Bundle and the name of it will be application dash test.
Click on.
Okay.
And here I will define a new property that's called server port and I will give it a value, attach
it to and we'll save changes.
Go back to my test class and if you need to have access to the value that you load from configuration
properties, you can inject it here.
So above my test method, I will define a new member variable.
I will call it silver port and I will annotate it with value annotation in double quotes.
I'll need to provide the name of the property that I want to load from configuration file and assign
to this member variable.
And it's done this way.
Dollar sign, curly brackets and inside the curly bracket.
I will need to type the name of the property server port.
So the same name that I use here and the same name that I use in other property files.
So let's see which value is going to be assigned here.
Instead of my test method, I'm going to print this value.
I reformat my source code.
Safe changes and now I can run this test method and see how it works.
Let's try.
Now if I select test method on the left side, I see that the value printed is 8081.
So currently the property with a name server port has a highest precedence.
All right.
And if I look at the console and scroll down, I will see that my embedded server started on the same
port number 80 and 81.
Now let's comment out this.
And remove properties from test property source and see which server port value is going to be used
now.
I'll save changes and we'll run my test method one more time.
This time the value printed is 8082, and this is the value that is specified in application test properties.
If I have a look at it, the value used is 8082 and my embedded Tomcat also should have started on port
number 8082.
So configuration properties that are specified in application test property file have higher precedence
because they are loaded using test property source annotation.
And finally, if I comment out test property source annotation, then my test class will use the port
number that is specified in application properties file.
Let's try.
And here we go.
The value of the port number is now eight, eight, eight, eight, which is defined in the application
properties file.
All right.
So if you want to test the application with alternative configuration, you can use test property source
annotation and configure it to load configuration properties from either a different file, or you can
override certain properties manually by defining them right inside of the test property.
Source Annotation All right, so it is all working for us and we're going to continue to the next lesson.